# Limerick1 workspace

Technical elements of a cognitive psychology thesis work to be submitted to the [faculty](https://www.swarthmore.edu/psychology/faculty-staff) of the [Department of Psychology](https://www.swarthmore.edu/psychology) at [Swarthmore College](swarthmore.edu) in April 2019 in partial fulfillment for the degree of Bachelor of Arts.

## Table of Contents
* [Background / Abstract [draft]](#background-/-abstract)
* [In this repository](#in-this-repository)
* [Requirements](#requirements)
* [Usage](#usage)
	* [Step 1: Gather data](#step-1-gather-data)
	* [Step 2: Generate files necessary for analysis](#step-2-generate-files-necessary-for-analysis)
	* [Step 3: Set up parameters for data analysis](#step-3-set-up-parameters-for-data-analysis)
	* [Step 4: Acquire data analysis measures](#step-4-acquire-data-analysis-measures)
	* [Step 5: Edit data analysis measures format](#step-5-edit-data-analysis-measures-format)
	* [Step 6: Statistical analysis](#step-6-statistical-analysis)
* [Support and Contributing](#support-and-contributing)
	* [Troubleshooting FAQ](#troubleshooting-faq)
	* [Additional support](#additional-support)
* [Acknowledgements](#acknowledgements)
* [License](#license)
* [TODO](#todo)


# Background / Abstract
**_Occupation of Inner Speech in the Working Memory: <br/>
Effects of Articulatory Suppression on Anticipated Lexical Stress_**

As we silently read words on a page, we read it using an “inner voice” that includes rhythm and inflections as if we are reading aloud. We also use an inner voice when performing non-literary tasks such as problem solving, mental calculation, and decision making. Present research has not yet investigated whether these two uses of the inner voice occupy the same resources in working memory. This paper presents findings from an eye-tracking study designed to demonstrate that silent reading occupies the same working memory resources as other mental tasks. Participants read stress-alternating homographs (e.g., PREsent, preSENT) embedded in limericks, which compelled them to initially expect the incorrect prosody of the homograph and thus encountering a reading cost. In addition, participants performed articulatory suppression by repeating the word this aloud as they read. The goal of this was to see if using the actual voice would interfere with the inner voice. If so, we anticipated that the differences between reading rhythm-matching and -mismatching limericks should vanish while repeating this—thus showing that these two inner voices occupy the same working memory resource.

Key words: implicit prosody, inner voice, inner speech, subvocalization, silent reading, working memory, phonological loop, syntactic parsing, syntactic ambiguity


[Back to top](#limerick1-workspace)

# In this repository

* `src/`
	* `make_new_asc/` - contains a python script that reformats the .asc data files generated by ExperimenterBuilder into one that's compatible with UMass-Amherst analysis software, which will be required to analyze our data.
		* Created by me (all blunders are mine)
		* Requires the list of subjects .py FIXME
		* Hard-coded variables: (modify these for future use)
			* input folder
			* `new_asc_folder` - FIXME here and in the script

	* `copy_question_acc/` - contains a python script that calculates each participant's percent accuracy on the questions, which will be required for excluding participants who were not paying attention.
		* Created by the UMass-Amherst Eyetracking Lab. See the actual instructions and documentation in this subfolder for details.
		* Some small tweaks in variable usage were modified by me, for ease of changing their values during future replications (see hard-coded variables bullet). No changes were made to the functionality.
		* Hard-coded variables: (modify these for future use)
			* `INPUT_FOLDER` - where the new .asc files live (the compatible ones generated by make_new_asc.py)
			* `OUTPUT_FOLDER` - where the outputs regarding question accuracy will live
		* Stuff I changed:
			* added line 44 to print the current file

	* `copy_Scripter2/` - contains a perl script that generates a .script file, which will be required for make_cnt.
		* Created by the UMass-Amherst Eyetracking Lab. See the actual instructions and documentation in this subfolder for details.
		* Some small tweaks in variable usage were modified by me, for ease of changing their values during future replications (see hard-coded variables bullet). No changes were made to the functionality.
		* Requires creating a sort of sentence file input (again, see actual instructions for details).
			* Ours is called input_to_scripter.txt. We made it by pasting stimuli into Excel, duplicating stuff, and concatenating stuff with the '^' deliminator.
			* FIXME
		* Hard-coded variables: (modify these for future use)
			* `$inputfile` - where the sentence file lives
			* `$outputfile` - where the generated .script file will live
			* `$xoff` - x offset in pixels, only if you have display change; otherwise just use return char.
			* `$yoff` - y offset in pixels, only if you have display change; otherwise just use return char.
			* `$pixrow` - number of vertical pixels per row, only if you have display change; otherwise just use return char.
			* `$sequence` - y or n depending if you want to automatically want to generate sequences

	* `copy_make_cnt/` - contains a python script that generates a .cnt file, which will be required for Robodoc.
		* Created by the UMass-Amherst Eyetracking Lab. See the actual instructions and documentation in this subfolder for details.
		* Some small tweaks in variable usage were modified by me, for ease of changing their values during future replications (see hard-coded variables bullet). No changes were made to the functionality.
		* Requires creating a sort of parameters file
			* FIXME
		* Hard-coded variables: (modify these for future use)
			* `OUTPUT_FOLDER` - where the generated .cnt file will live
			* `input_file` - the .script file (the one generated by copy_Scripter2.pl)
			* `delim_char` - the region deliminator character in the file that was inputted to copy_Scripter2.pl
			* `lowest_cond` - the lowest condition number to be analyzed
			* `highest_cond` - the highest condition number to be analyzed

	* `copy_fix_align/` - contains an R script that performs realignment of eyetracking data, which apparently will be required for Robodoc since this is a multi-line experiment.
		* Created by the UMass-Amherst Eyetracking Lab. See the actual instructions and documentation in this subfolder for details.
		* Some small tweaks in variable usage were modified by me, for ease of changing their values during future replications (see hard-coded variables bullet). No changes were made to the functionality.
		* Hard-coded parameters:
			* `asc_files` - where the new .asc files live (the compatible ones generated by make_new_asc.py)
			* `fa_dir` - where the fix-aligned .asc files will live (this is now v.3 of the .asc's)
			* and the rest of the parameters to the fix_align() function; see CohenBRM.pdf for details on how to set each of them
		* Non-param stuff that I changed from the original script:
			* Added a single line at the very end that calls the given fix_align() function
		* Suggestion: do not use the option to save trial plots as .tiff (i.e. set `save_trial_plots=FALSE`) unless you need them, as they will likely take up the rest of your computer's hard drive space or more, and the program already takes a while to run without it.

	* `copy_Robodoc/`
		* Created by the UMass-Amherst Eyetracking Lab. See the actual instructions and documentation in this subfolder for details.
		* Some small tweaks in variable usage were modified by me, for ease of changing their values during future replications (see hard-coded variables bullet). No changes were made to the functionality.
		* Requires parameters file
			* FIXME
		* Hard-coded parameters:
			* `OUTPUT_FOLDER` - where the various generated files will live
			* `INPUT_FOLDER` - where the fix aligned .asc files live (the compatible ones generated by copy_fix_align.R)
		* Non-variable stuff that I changed from the original script:
			* The two or three instances of `kp.close` chaged to `kp.close()` (it was probably a typo)
			* At the end (begining from line 1021), added a loop to fix the mis-pathed entries in files_processed.lst <!--, exclude.lst, and keep.lst--> (i broke the given script by switching it to INPUT/OUTPUT from outside the current directory)
				<!-- * Also append a newline before each of these files, since eyedry seemed to be skipping the first line (probably assumed there was a header there--but there isnt') NO DON'T DO THIS-->
	* `copy_dataanal_714` - contains a bunch of analysis software.
		* Created by the UMass-Amherst Eyetracking Lab. See the actual instructions and documentation in this subfolder for details.
			* ANALASC.doc seems to be the README equivalent for the folder
		* We are only interested in `eyedry` in particular, hence the seprate `eyedry/` folder (described right below)
		* Each comes with a pre-compiled .exe executable that can only be run from Windows Command Prompt, but the C code can compiled with any compiler (we used GCC) on any Mac/Linux/Windows bash terminal.
		* Nothing is done with this folder besides archiving its contents
	* `eyedry/` - contains the analysis software that we use.
		* Created by the UMass-Amherst Eyetracking Lab. See the actual instructions and documentation in this subfolder for details.
		* Instructions for analysis are below in the Usage section.
	* `copy_Stat/` - contains the statistical software
		* Created by Gary Perlman 1986

* `data/`
	* `FA_Dir/`
		* contents are auto-generated by fix_align
	* `new_asc/`
		* contents are auto-generated by new_asc
	* `original_asc/`
		* put original .asc data here by hand
	* `question_acc/`
		* contents are auto-generated by question_acc
	* `robodoc/`
		* contents are auto-generated by robodoc
	* `scripter/`
		* contents are auto-generated by scripter and make_cnt
	* `eyedry/`
		* `originals/`
		* `edited_originals/`

* `test/`
	* everything in here is archived stuff to be ignored

* a mountain of technical difficulties

[Back to top](#limerick1-workspace)

# Requirements

* [python3.4+](https://www.python.org/downloads/)
* [perl](https://www.perl.org/get.html)
* [R](https://www.r-project.org)
* [GCC compiler for C](https://gcc.gnu.org/releases.html) (or substitute with another compiler)

This package works with Mac and Linux terminals.

It works with Windows, too, but this is difficult for a variety of reasons: Command Prompt uses different commands than the ones described in the usage instructions below, when you do something wrong whilst running eyedry it crashes without showing you the error message, and retrieving files from Bash is difficult. If necessary though, there's at least one workaround for Windows through using the [VisualStudio Code IDE](https://code.visualstudio.com) + [GitHub Desktop](https://desktop.github.com) bash shell.

TL;DR: Best to use macOS or Linux.

[Back to top](#limerick1-workspace)

# Usage

## Step 1: Gather data
1. **Create the experiment in ExperimentBuilder.**
	* Ideally, we would have create it using the UMass eyetracking experiment template to avoid the technical struggles of getting to data analysis, but we could not with this particular experiment because this experiment has a secondary task component that isn't supported by the UMass setup.
2. **Run participants.**
	* Experimenter script, debriefing, participant log, pre-registration, etc. are located in the `EyeTrackingLabAdmin/Limerick1/` shared Drive folder.
	* Information about how stuff was run and where files are located can be found in the Experimenter Script.
3. **Convert data files from EDF to ASC**
	* Each participant's data will be located on the Host computer in e.g. `Desktop/Exeriments/LimerickProsodyDeployed/LimerickProsodyA/results/subject0/`
	* In that folder, there should be an .edf file titled e.g. `subject0.edf`. Double-click on that .edf file to generate an .asc file.
		* There's some EDF to ASC converter software installed on the Host computer that allows it to do that. Double-clicking an EDF file on your personal computer won't do anything if you don't have that software installed.
4. **Gather original ASC files and AOI folders**
	* Once the .asc file has been generated, copy it onto a thumbdrive or something and place it into this package's `data/original_asc/` folder.
	* Also copy each of the eight Areas of Interest (AOI) folders into this package's `data/original_asc/` folder, so that it contains `A_aoi/`, `B_aoi/`, `C_aoi/`, `D_aoi/`, `RevA_aoi/`, `RevB_aoi/`, `RevC_aoi/`, `RevD_aoi/`.
5. **Match participants with their list**
	* This experiment used a Latin Square design. Participants saw one of eight possible lists. Analysis will require knowing which list each participant saw.
	* In `src/make_new_asc/lists.py` is a dictionary mapping lists to participants who saw that list. The eight lists are A, B, C, D, RevA, RevB, RevC, RevD.

[Back to top](#limerick1-workspace)

## Step 2: Generate files necessary for analysis
From within the `/src` directory, run:
```
python3 runall.py
```

All input variables are already written into the respective scripts (but see above section for where to modify things during future use). This single script executes the following all at once in this order:

* Deletes all subfolders (and their contents) except for original_asc/ and eyedry/, and then recreates them as empty folders for a fresh start
* make_new_asc.py
* copy_question_acc.py
* remove_participants_question_acc.py
* copy_Scripter2.pl
* copy_make_cnt.py
* copy_fix_align_v0p92.R
* copy_Robodoc.py

[Back to top](#limerick1-workspace)

## Step 3: Set up parameters for data analysis

1. From within `src/eyedry/`, compile eyedry: (ignore any warnings)
```
gcc eyedry.c -o eyedry
```

2. From within `src/`, run the executable that we just created: (ignore any warnings)
```
./eyedry/eyedry
```

3. Eyedry will ask a series of questions. For details of what each question is asking, see the eyelab manual. A copy of the manual is located in `EyeTrackingLabAdmin/UMassEyetrack/eyelabmanual.pdf`. We answered as follows:

<!-- generated with the aid of https://www.tablesgenerator.com/markdown_tables -->

| Question | Answer | Explanation and Comments |
|----:|:----:|----|
| What is the output trace file name? | `../data/eyedry/trace_1.txt` | This does not affect functionality. |
| Type an identifying string to print out | trying to get data on [date and time] | This does not affect functionality. |
| What is the maximum number of fixations on an item | [press return] | Using default |
| Type name of file containing control info (CR if none) | `eyedry/limerick1.ctl`, or press return and re-generate it as follows: | this .ctl file can be saved and re-used |
| Debug level | 0 | |
| Does the question after a sentence have the same COND and ITEM number as the sentences and fall on the next line? | n | |
| Do you want to eliminate trials on the basis of errors to questions? | n | |
| What is the smallest numbered experimental item? | 1 | |
| What is the largest numbered experimental item? | 40 | |
| How many regions maximum? | 7 | |
| What is the smallest condition number (after any exception adjustment)? | 1 | |
| What is the largest condition number (after any exception adjustment)? | 4 | |
| How many subconditions maximum for any one item? | 4 | We didn't exactly have subconditions, but it breaks otherwise. |
| What field is the condition number in? | 2 | According to `HowToReadRoboDocOutput.txt` |
| What field is the item number in? | 3 | According to `HowToReadRoboDocOutput.txt` |
| What field is the number-of-fixations number in | 6 | according to `HowToReadRoboDocOutput.txt` (note that this is different from what's suggested in the aged eyetrackingmanual.pdf) |
| What field do the data start in? | 7 | According to `HowToReadRoboDocOutput.txt` (note that this is different from what's suggested in the aged eyetrackingmanual.pdf) |
| Longest fixation time, msec (truncate if above) | 800 | Same as Breen and Clifton (2011) |
| Shortest fixation time, msec (discard if below) | 80 | Same as Breen and Clifton (2011) |
| What is the screen width in characters? | 160 | Approximately but we didn't use fix-width font |
| What is the maximum number of lines of text? | 5 | |
| Do you want to permit regions to wrap around end of a line? | n | |
| Did your .sen/.stm file have blank lines between lines of text? | y | No idea, we don't even have .sen/.stm files |
| Do you want to analyze just some of your trials (eg 1st half)? | n | |
| Do you want to analyze just the first N trials in each condition? | n | |
| Following the questions, it will ask to confirm the values that were just entered. | Double-check them and correct errors if necessary by entering the number of the value to change (instructions are on the screen). Then [press return] to continue. | |
| What file name do you want to save these values as (CR if none)? | `eyedry/limerick1.ctl` or [press return]| This will only be asked if you did not enter a .ctl file above or if you changed one of its values. This does not affect functionality. |
| What is the name of file that lists data files? | `../data/robodoc/files_processed.lst` | |
| Any exceptions file? | n | |
| ~~Control~~ Count (.CNT) file name? | `../data/scripter/output_from_scripter.cnt` | Typo, it's supposed to be "count file" not "control file." |


After answering these questions, the next that should appear is a "Which analysis?" list of possible analyses that can be performed. Continue to the next step.

[Back to top](#limerick1-workspace)

## Step 4: Acquire data analysis measures

### 4.1. Overview of analysis (just read, nothing to do here)

* **Prior to analysis:** (following Breen and Clifton, 2011)
	* Eliminated participants who scored below 2.5 standard deviations below the median on the "is this limerick dirty" comprehension questions (standard practice).
		* This was done when we ran `remove_participants_question_acc.py` as part of `runall.py`
	* Eye movement data was cleaned of track losses, blinks, and long fixations over 800ms using EyeDoctor.
		* We cleaned track losses and blinks when we ran Robodoc.
		* We cleaned long fixations when we passed in parameters to EyeDoctor in the previous step.
	* Short fixations (<80ms) were incorporated into the nearest neighboring fixation within three characters, otherwise deleted.
		* We cleaned short fixations when we passed in parameters to EyeDoctor in the previous step.
	* Long fixations (>800ms) were deleted
		* We cleaned long fixations when we passed in parameters to EyeDoctor in the previous step.
	* Trials with blinks or track losses on the critical word were eliminated
		* We eliminated trials with blinks or track losses when we ran Robodoc.

* **Analysis of standard eyetracking measures:** (following Breen and Clifton, 2011; c.f. Rayner, 1998; Rayner et al.,1989)
	* **First-pass time** - sum of all fixations made from first entering to first leaving a region, eliminating trials on which no such fixations occurred.
	* **Go-past time** - sum of all fixation durations made from first entering a region to first leaving it to the right.
	* **Probability of fixating in a region** - no description provided.
	* **Probability of regressing out of a region given that it was fixated during the first pass** - no description provided.
	* **First fixation duration for critical Region 3** - no description provided
		* Due to non-significance, Breen and Clifton (2011) did not report these data.

[Back to top](#limerick1-workspace)

### 4.2. Generate data analysis files (instructions here)
Each of the following measures will be obtained within the terminal starting from the "Which analysis?" prompt. Completion of each measure will return you to this prompt. Answer the questions as follows.

WARNING: Sometimes the program segfaults and crashes for various unknown reasons.

**Shortcuts:**
* [4.2.A. First-pass time](#42a-first-pass-time)
* [4.2.B. Go-past time](#42b-go-past-time)
* [4.2.C. Probability of fixating a region](#42c-probability-of-fixating-a-region)
* [4.2.D. Probability of regressing out of a region](#42d-probability-of-regressing-out-of-a-region)
* [4.2.E. First fixation duration in region 3](#42e-first-fixation-duration-in-region-3)
* [4.2.F. Fin.](#42f-fin)

[Back to top](#limerick1-workspace)

#### **4.2.A. First-pass time**

| Question | Answer | Explanation and Comments |
|----:|:----:|----|
| Which analysis? | 2 | |
| Type an identifying string to print out | First pass time | This doesn't affect functionality. |
| Throw away zero fixation values? | y | |
| Do you want to CULMINATE or AVERAGE multiple fixations in a region? | c | |
| RAW times, MS/char, or DEVIATION from regression | r | |
| Conditionalize on presence/absence of regression in critical region? | n | |
| Conditionalize on presence/absence of fixation in critical region? | n | |
| What is the upper summed cutoff for first pass time? | [press return] | Use default |
| Conditionalize on position of last fixation before each region? | n | |
| File of item X subject combinations | `firstPassIXS` | We will base our analysis on this file. |
| Do you want ALL trials written, or just trials with Observations? | a | |
| Do you want Wide output (all regions in one row) or Narrow (one row per region)? | w | |
| Subject by subject file, one condition per line (not systat) | `firstPassSXS` | We won't base our analysis on this file, but we might as well save it. |
| Subject by subject file, formatted for Systat | [press return] | We don't want this file. |
| Item by item file, one condition per line (not systat) | `firstPassIXI` | We won't base our analysis on this file, but we might as well save it. |
| Item by item file, formatted for Systat | [press return] | We don't want this file. |
| Do you want information about long and short times printed? | n | WARNING: "y" is a possible source of segfault. |
| Do you want a typeout of the item-by-item data? | n | WARNING: "y" is a possible source of segfault. |

[Back to top](#limerick1-workspace)

#### **4.2.B. Go-past time**
| Question | Answer | Explanation and Comments |
|----:|:----:|----|
| Which analysis? | 13 | |
| Type an identifying string to print out | Go-past time | This doesn't affect functionality. |
| Throw away zero fixation values? | y | |
| Do you want to CULMINATE or AVERAGE multiple fixations in a region? | c | |
| Do you want to keep RAW times or convert to MSEC/CHAR?| r | |
| Which analysis | 1 | There are three options here. We want sum of all time from first entering region to first going past. |
| File of item X subject combinations | `goPastIXS` | We will base our analysis on this file. |
| Do you want ALL trials written, or just trials with Observations? | a | |
| Do you want Wide output (all regions in one row) or Narrow (one row per region)? | w | |
| Subject by subject file, one condition per line (not systat) | `goPastSXS` | We won't base our analysis on this file, but we might as well save it. |
| Subject by subject file, formatted for Systat | [press return] | We don't want this file. |
| Item by item file, one condition per line (not systat) | `goPastIXI` | We won't base our analysis on this file, but we might as well save it.|
| Item by item file, formatted for Systat | [press return] | We don't want this file. |
| Do you want information about long and short times printed? | n | WARNING: "y" is a possible source of segfault. |
| Do you want a typeout of the item-by-item data? | n | WARNING: "y" is a possible source of segfault. |

[Back to top](#limerick1-workspace)

#### **4.2.C. Probability of fixating a region**
| Question | Answer | Explanation and Comments |
|----:|:----:|----|
| Which analysis? | 6 | |
| Type an identifying string to print out | Probability of fixating in a region | This doesn't affect functionality. |
| Which analysis: | 1 | Probability of one or more fixations |
| Conditionalize on position of last fixation before each region? | n | |
| File of item X subject combinations | `probFixationIXS` | We will base our analysis on this file. |
| Do you want ALL trials written, or just trials with Observations? | a | |
| Do you want Wide output (all regions in one row) or Narrow (one row per region)? | w | |
| Subject by subject file, one condition per line (not systat) | `probFixationSXS` | We won't base our analysis on this file, but we might as well save it. |
| Subject by subject file, formatted for Systat | [press return] | We don't want this file. |
| Item by item file, one condition per line (not systat) | [`probFixationIXI` | We won't base our analysis on this file, but we might as well save it. |
| Item by item file, formatted for Systat | [press return] | We don't want this file. |
| Do you want information about long and short times printed? | n | WARNING: "y" is a possible source of segfault. |
| Do you want a typeout of the item-by-item data? | n | WARNING: "y" is a possible source of segfault. |

[Back to top](#limerick1-workspace)

#### **4.2.D. Probability of regressing out of a region**
| Question | Answer | Explanation and Comments |
|----:|:----:|----|
| Which analysis? | 4 | |
| Type an identifying string to print out | Probability of regresing out of a region | This doesn't affect functionality. |
| File of item X subject combinations | `probRegressionIXS` | We will base our analysis on this file. |
| Do you want ALL trials written, or just trials with Observations? | a | |
| Do you want Wide output (all regions in one row) or Narrow (one row per region)? | w | |
| Subject by subject file, one condition per line (not systat) | `probRegressionSXS` | We won't base our analysis on this file, but we might as well save it. |
| Subject by subject file, formatted for Systat | [press return] | We don't want this file. |
| Item by item file, one condition per line (not systat) | `probRegressionIXI` | We won't base our analysis on this file, but we might as well save it. |
| Item by item file, formatted for Systat | [press return] | We don't want this file. |
| Do you want information about long and short times printed? | n | WARNING: "y" is a possible source of segfault. |
| Do you want a typeout of the item-by-item data? | n | WARNING: "y" is a possible source of segfault. |

[Back to top](#limerick1-workspace)

#### **4.2.E. First fixation duration in region 3**
| Question | Answer | Explanation and Comments |
|----:|:----:|----|
| Which analysis? | 1 | |
| Type an identifying string to print out | First fixation duration in Region 3 | This doesn't affect functionality. |
| Which analysis: | 3 | Initial one of multiple fixations |
| Do you want to keep RAW times or convert to MSEC/CHAR? | r | |
| Conditionalize on presence/absense of regression in critical region? | n | |
| Conditionalize on presence/absense of fixation in critical region? | n | |
| Conditionalize on position of last fixation before each region? | n | |
| File of item X subject combinations | `firstFixationIXS` | We will base our analysis on this file. |
| Do you want ALL trials written, or just trials with Observations? | a | |
| Do you want Wide output (all regions in one row) or Narrow (one row per region)? | w | |
| Subject by subject file, one condition per line (not systat) | `firstFixationSXS` | We won't base our analysis on this file, but we might as well save it. |
| Subject by subject file, formatted for Systat | [press return] | We don't want this file |
| Item by item file, one condition per line (not systat) | `firstFixationIXI` | We won't base our analysis on this file, but we might as well save it. |
| Item by item file, formatted for Systat | [press return] | We don't want this file |
| Do you want information about long and short times printed? | n | WARNING: "y" is a possible source of segfault. |
| Do you want a typeout of the item-by-item data? | n | WARNING: "y" is a possible source of segfault. |

[Back to top](#limerick1-workspace)

#### **4.2.F. Fin.**

Press 0 to Quit.

Move all of those generated files into `../data/eyedry/originals/`.

NOTE: the trace file (e.g. `../data/eyedry/trace_limerick1.txt`) contains a record of everything that was performed with EyeDry just now.


[Back to top](#limerick1-workspace)

### 4.3. Check that the analyses measures are actully adequate
Sample a few trials from the analyses files to compare "by hand" with the video viewer in ExperimentBuilder. Play the participants' eye movements for those trials at 25% of the speed, and see if they seem to correspond with the purported firstPass duration, goPast duration, probabilityFixation, probabilityRegression, etc.

To match the participants' measures in the analyses files back together with their eye-movement videos in ExperimenterBuilder, consider the following:
* The subject numbers (second column) in each of the IXS measures files (e.g. `firstPassIXS`) respectively correspond to participants in the `data/robodoc/files_processed.lst` file.
* The sequence number (first column) in each of the IXS measures files (e.g. `firstPassIXS`) correspond with the DataViewer TrialID with this relationship:
	```
	dataviewer_trialid = (sequence_number + 1) / 2 + 1
	```
	* I had to do math to discover this relationship.
	* NOTE: The TRIALID from the original .asc file and the TRIALID from the DataViewer for the same limerick trial are apparently off-by-one. The .asc file starts counting at 0, while Dataviewer starts counting at 1.

* Double-check: The item number (third column) in each of the IXS measures files (e.g. `firstPassIXS` should correspond exactly with the TRIALID number in the original .asc file. Check the limerick from the .asc for that trial against the one for that sequence in `src/scripter/input_to_scripter`; they should be the same limerick.
* Triple-check: The condition number should match against the original .asc.

[Back to top](#limerick1-workspace)

## Step 5: Edit data analysis measures format
From within `/src`, run:
```
python3 edit_cond.py
```

This replaces missing values with 0 and replaces condition numbers with their word descriptions (e.g. 1 => match_tap) for each of five IXS measures files.

It also repairs the unexplainable error where some random lines in the measures files contained a zero condition value but a non-zero sequence value; for these, it replaces the sequence value wtih 0.

The edited files become stored into `data/eyedry/edited_originals` per the script.

## Step 6: Statistical Analysis
IN PROGRESS

# Support and Contributing

## Troubleshooting FAQ

* Help I lost a data file.
	* Copies of every .edf should be stored on the Source computer.
* Help my participant is looking at the blue dot but it's not triggering.
	* Recalibration can be performed between blocks at each break point, but unfortunately we are not able to perform mid-block recalibration. In the meantime just guide the participant's gaze to find the trigger point, and remind them again to refrain from moving. Some damage repair can hopefully be absolved when we run `fixAlign.R` on the ascii files.

## Additional support
* If anything is buggy or unclear, please open an issue or pull request, or contact ~~itang1@swarthmore.edu~~ itang1@alumni.swarthmore.edu.
* This repo is no longer actively being maintained as of May 2019.

[Back to top](#limerick1-workspace)

# Acknowledgements
Thanks to Professor [Dan Grodner](https://www.swarthmore.edu/psychology/faculty-staff) for enormous guidance and so much invested time over the years; to Professors [Dan Grodner](https://www.swarthmore.edu/psychology/faculty-staff) and [Nathan Sanders](http://sanders.phonologist.org) for setting up the experiment; to Drs. [Mara Breen](https://www.mtholyoke.edu/~mbreen/) and [Charles Clifton](http://www.umass.edu/pbs/people/charles-clifton) for providing the [stimuli](https://www.mtholyoke.edu/~mbreen/pubs/LimericksItems.pdf) and [research](https://www.mtholyoke.edu/~mbreen/pubs/BreenClifton_JML_2011.pdf) on which this study was based; to Drs. [Charles Clifton](http://www.umass.edu/pbs/people/charles-clifton), [Adrian Staub](https://www.umass.edu/pbs/people/adrian-staub), [Andrew Cohen](https://www.umass.edu/pbs/people/andrew-cohen), [Jesse Harris](https://linguistics.ucla.edu/person/jesse-harris/), and [colleagues](http://blogs.umass.edu/eyelab/people/) for creating and maintaining the [eyetracking analysis software](http://blogs.umass.edu/eyelab/software/) that we relied on; to the alumni and current students practicing research in the [Swarthmore Psycholinguistics Lab](https://www.swarthmore.edu/psychology/labs); to the [Swarthmore Department of Psychology](https://www.swarthmore.edu/psychology) for sponsoring the experiment; and to the undergraduate students at [Swarthmore College](https://www.swarthmore.edu) who participated in the study.

[Back to top](#limerick1-workspace)

# License
[MIT License](LICENSE)

(c) Copyright 2019 Swarthmore Psycholinguistics Lab etc.

This project was created for non-monetary educational purposes only (please don't sue me)

[Back to top](#limerick1-workspace)

# TODO
* run the statistics
* still writing the actual paper
* when will there be a part 2
* (unrelated) make progress on the other scalar judgement loading study replication