# `src/`

## `make_new_asc/`
* contains a python script that reformats the .asc data files generated by ExperimenterBuilder into one that's compatible with UMass-Amherst analysis software, which will be required to analyze our data.
* Created by me (all blunders are mine)
* Requires the list of subjects .py FIXME
* Hard-coded variables: (modify these for future use)
	* input folder
	* `new_asc_folder` - FIXME here and in the script

## `copy_question_acc/`
* contains a python script that calculates each participant's percent accuracy on the questions, which will be required for excluding participants who were not paying attention.
* Created by the UMass-Amherst Eyetracking Lab. See the actual instructions and documentation in this subfolder for details.
* Some small tweaks in variable usage were modified by me, for ease of changing their values during future replications (see hard-coded variables bullet). No changes were made to the functionality.
* Hard-coded variables: (modify these for future use)
	* `INPUT_FOLDER` - where the new .asc files live (the compatible ones generated by make_new_asc.py)
	* `OUTPUT_FOLDER` - where the outputs regarding question accuracy will live
* Stuff I changed:
	* added line 44 to print the current file

## `copy_Scripter2/`
* contains a perl script that generates a .script file, which will be required for make_cnt.
* Created by the UMass-Amherst Eyetracking Lab. See the actual instructions and documentation in this subfolder for details.
* Some small tweaks in variable usage were modified by me, for ease of changing their values during future replications (see hard-coded variables bullet). No changes were made to the functionality.
* Requires creating a sort of sentence file input (again, see actual instructions for details).
	* Ours is called input_to_scripter.txt. We made it by pasting stimuli into Excel, duplicating stuff, and concatenating stuff with the '^' deliminator.
	* FIXME
* Hard-coded variables: (modify these for future use)
	* `$inputfile` - where the sentence file lives
	* `$outputfile` - where the generated .script file will live
	* `$xoff` - x offset in pixels, only if you have display change; otherwise just use return char.
	* `$yoff` - y offset in pixels, only if you have display change; otherwise just use return char.
	* `$pixrow` - number of vertical pixels per row, only if you have display change; otherwise just use return char.
	* `$sequence` - y or n depending if you want to automatically want to generate sequences

## `copy_make_cnt/`
* contains a python script that generates a .cnt file, which will be required for Robodoc.
* Created by the UMass-Amherst Eyetracking Lab. See the actual instructions and documentation in this subfolder for details.
* Some small tweaks in variable usage were modified by me, for ease of changing their values during future replications (see hard-coded variables bullet). No changes were made to the functionality.
* Requires creating a sort of parameters file
	* FIXME
* Hard-coded variables: (modify these for future use)
	* `OUTPUT_FOLDER` - where the generated .cnt file will live
	* `input_file` - the .script file (the one generated by copy_Scripter2.pl)
	* `delim_char` - the region deliminator character in the file that was inputted to copy_Scripter2.pl
	* `lowest_cond` - the lowest condition number to be analyzed
	* `highest_cond` - the highest condition number to be analyzed

## `copy_fix_align/`
* contains an R script that performs realignment of eyetracking data, which apparently will be required for Robodoc since this is a multi-line experiment.
* Created by the UMass-Amherst Eyetracking Lab. See the actual instructions and documentation in this subfolder for details.
* Some small tweaks in variable usage were modified by me, for ease of changing their values during future replications (see hard-coded variables bullet). No changes were made to the functionality.
* Hard-coded parameters:
	* `asc_files` - where the new .asc files live (the compatible ones generated by make_new_asc.py)
	* `fa_dir` - where the fix-aligned .asc files will live (this is now v.3 of the .asc's)
	* and the rest of the parameters to the fix_align() function; see CohenBRM.pdf for details on how to set each of them
* Non-param stuff that I changed from the original script:
	* Added a single line at the very end that calls the given fix_align() function
* Suggestion: do not use the option to save trial plots as .tiff (i.e. set `save_trial_plots=FALSE`) unless you need them, as they will likely take up the rest of your computer's hard drive space or more, and the program already takes a while to run without it.

## `copy_Robodoc/`
* Created by the UMass-Amherst Eyetracking Lab. See the actual instructions and documentation in this subfolder for details.
* Some small tweaks in variable usage were modified by me, for ease of changing their values during future replications (see hard-coded variables bullet). No changes were made to the functionality.
* Requires parameters file
	* FIXME
* Hard-coded parameters:
	* `OUTPUT_FOLDER` - where the various generated files will live
	* `INPUT_FOLDER` - where the fix aligned .asc files live (the compatible ones generated by copy_fix_align.R)
* Non-variable stuff that I changed from the original script:
	* The two or three instances of `kp.close` chaged to `kp.close()` (it was probably a typo)
	* At the end (begining from line 1021), added a loop to fix the mis-pathed entries in files_processed.lst <!--, exclude.lst, and keep.lst--> (i broke the given script by switching it to INPUT/OUTPUT from outside the current directory)
		<!-- * Also append a newline before each of these files, since eyedry seemed to be skipping the first line (probably assumed there was a header there--but there isnt') NO DON'T DO THIS-->
## `copy_dataanal_714`
* contains a bunch of analysis software.
* Created by the UMass-Amherst Eyetracking Lab. See the actual instructions and documentation in this subfolder for details.
	* ANALASC.doc seems to be the README equivalent for the folder
* We are only interested in `eyedry` in particular, hence the seprate `eyedry/` folder (described right below)
* Each comes with a pre-compiled .exe executable that can only be run from Windows Command Prompt, but the C code can compiled with any compiler (we used GCC) on any Mac/Linux/Windows bash terminal.
* Nothing is done with this folder besides archiving its contents

## `eyedry/`
* contains the analysis software that we use.
* Created by the UMass-Amherst Eyetracking Lab. See the actual instructions and documentation in this subfolder for details.
* Instructions for analysis are below in the Usage section.

## `copy_Stat/`
* contains the statistical software
* Created by Gary Perlman 1986